I became exposed to what people were doing online with the rayshader package earlier this year. I found the tool to be elegant and visually attention grabbing. Here I have spatially intersected hexagons, representing 400 meter areas with assigned population values, with Pennsylvania.   This population data was taken from a 2022 Kontur dataset (kontur.io). I retrieved US Census data from the tigris package. 

I would like to thank Spencer Schien, whose website and tutorials were invaluable for figuring out parameters to use so that R wouldn’t repeatedly abort while I was rendering images. I have borrowed many of his ideas for the creation of this visualization. His tutorial on adding text over top of images helped a good deal as well. Here is something to look at: https://spencerschien.info/post/data_viz_how_to/high_quality_rayshader_visuals/



For those looking to recreate this and having trouble with certain install packages: I used both macOS and Windows while working on the project, which because of the latter operating system’s architecture posed a particular challenge. Many of the packages were not installing correctly on Windows, even after running RStudio as an administrator and creating a new Renv file so that the package install location could be modified. Moreover, after trying to install the latest rayshader and rayrender package versions through Github, errors in installation kept occurring. 

One prompt change that worked well for me was directing the devtools package to not create a build for the packages. Otherwise, one of the executable files responsible for the package installation was unable to be run (similar to this user’s issue: community.rstudio.com/t/how-to-resolve-install-github-fails-with-error-system-command-rcmd-exe-failed-exit-status-1-stdout-stderr/95202 ). These issues were cumbersome to get through, certainly, but my Windows machine was much faster rendering and so was worth the troubleshooting.
